1. Speculate on whether you believe that so-called “deep” neural networks are destined to be another bust just as perceptrons
and expert systems were in the past, or whether they really are a breakthrough that will be used for years into the future. 
Please give a two-to-three-paragraph answer, including examples to back up your argument.


First to mention the difference between deep neural networks and expert systmes, expert systems require manually created database
for rules in text form--which can be tedious process--while neural networks creates their own rules which are represented as
weights between points on a grid via training by the input data.  

Neural networks has their advantages with dealing with uncertainty and sophisticated pattern recognition. For instance, to 
answer the questions auch as "what will the weather be like tomorrow?", expert systems would need to go through endless amount
of values and writing out rules on how to answer the question which is virtually impossible (expert systems cannot handle time).
On the other hand, neural networks will compute the answer as they are a series of stacked regression equations. 

However, neural networks have its weakness at explaining for the conclusions they make. Neural networks are called "black box" 
once they are trained, difficult to interpret what model has learned due to difficulty of understanding the relationship between
the representations learned at each layer.

It is hard to say that it will be whether another bust just as perceptrosn and expert systems or a real breakthough for the future
at this point. However, as we have seen the pattern of shifting in trends from GOFAI, Bayesian statisitics, machine learning 
to neural networks, where all those algorithms developed as the complementories for the problems of the past ones, I believe there
will be another set of algorithms in the future compensating the problem of neural networks in different perspectives coming up
with different answers. 


Sources 
https://www.quora.com/What-are-the-differences-between-expert-systems-and-artificial-neural-networks
https://www.quora.com/What-are-the-advantages-disadvantages-of-Artificial-Neural-networks
