Myungha Kim & Sarah Samuel 


1. The machine learned model would tell if it is a stomach flu or food poisoning based on the data collected on symptoms and 
   incubation period. 

2. The ideal outcome of this model would be correctly differentiated diseases based on the method the model is taking to 
   catch the difference between stomach flu and food poisoning.

3.  a) The success metrics will be measured via a live experiment (many success metrics can’t be captured offline). Our success
       metrics are 97% which seems to be the minimal success rate for the diagnosing disease model to have.  
    b) our key results for the success metrics are disease diagnosis based on the symptoms and incubation period. 
    c) our ML model is deemed a failure if the model diagnose a patient with the wrong disease (patient with stomach flu 
       with food poisoning, vise versa). With the 3% chance, the model misdiagnoses diseases.

4.	a) The output from our ML model will be a disease diagnosis which should be connected to our ideal outcome which is 
       “correctly” differentiating diseases.  
    b) The output is defined as the probability of a patient having either stomach flu or food poisoning. 

5.	a) The output from the ML model will be made in real time, in response to user activity (online) with the dataset 
       already exists due to the condition of the situation which the diagnosis should be made in a reasonable time frame. 
    b) The outcome will be used for guiding patients toward appropriate treatment for the disease based on the correct 
       diagnosis made by the model. 

6. 	If we didn’t use ML, we would use the probability table for each disease. The prior would be determined by the incubation
    period and/or causes to determine which disease it is more prone to be. Likelihood would be probability assigned to each 
    symptoms (it is similart to the Graham's spam filter analogy where you assign probability to each token in the email indicating
    if it is likely to be from spam email or non-spam email). The posterior would be prior * likelihood / marginal,
    which will diagonose the disease. 

7.  a) Our problem is best framed as binary classification - stomach flu and food poisoning. 
    b) Our model is already a binary classification. 

8. Input 1 would be incubation period, Input 2 would be symptoms, and Input 3 would be causes (viruses, bacteria, etc.). 
   The output would be diagnosis - stomach flu or food poisoning. 

9. The previous data for our model (both input 1 and input 2) would come from the historical dataset of hospitals and CDC 
   (Center for Disease Control). The new data would come from the user input (patient reports)

10. Input 1, incubation period, would produce a reasonable, initial outcome since other inputs (cause and symptoms) are 
    generally overlapping which makes it hard to make a initial diagnosis for the patient just based on the those inputs 
    while incubation period is clearly different between two diseases. 





